## Overview

Begin applications are comprised of many small, fast, individually executing cloud functions (or Functions for short).

Let's take a look at the source tree of a basic Begin app:

```bash
.
├── public/             # … (optional) Static assets (can be renamed)
├── src/
│   ├── http/           # … (optional) All HTTP functions
│   │   └── get-foo/    # … (optional) HTTP route: `GET /foo`
│   ├── shared/         # … (optional) Shared code
|   └── views/          # … (optional) Shared frontend code
└── app.arc                # … Project manifest (read-only)
```

Each Function directory services a handler for a publicly available HTTP route (e.g. `src/http/get-hello-world` services `GET /hello/world`).

Your app's many individually isolated Functions are organized in your project under `src/`.


## Business logic

### `src/http`

**[Optional]** Contains Function directories representing [HTTP routes](/en/functions/http/).

Each directory maps to its own individual, fully isolated, and independently deployable cloud function.

Function directories must contain an `index.js` file that services the cloud function handler, and any dependencies required for it to operate.

Here's an example project tree for a Function that handles the HTTP path `POST /api/:itemID`:

```bash
.
└── src/
    └── http/
        └── post-api-000itemID/
            ├── node_modules/
            ├── index.js
            ├── package-lock.json
            └── package.json
```

> Note: New Function directories are generated by Begin. [Learn more about creating new Functions](/en/functions/creating-new-functions/).


<!-- TODO multi-runtime update here -->


## Shared code

### `src/shared`

**[Optional]** This is a handy folder that makes its contents available across all your Functions under the `@architect/shared` namespace. Think: per-project globally installed modules.

Here's an example of how a file in `src/shared` would be available to a Function:

```bash
.
└── src/
    ├── http/
    │   └── post-api-000itemID/
    |       ├── node_modules/
    |       |   └── @architect/
    |       |       └── shared/
    |       |           └── constants.js
    |       └── index.js
    └── shared/
        └── constant.js
```

Here's what the `require` would look like for that file:

```js
// src/http/post-api-000itemID/index.js
const Constants = require('@architect/shared/constants')
exports.handler = async function http(request) {
  return {
    statusCode: 200,
    type: 'text/html; charset=utf8',
    body: Constants.helloWorld
  }
}
```

> You can install global dependencies to `src/shared` – but mind dependency bloat! **Routes must weigh in under 5MB uncompressed.**


### `src/views`

**[Optional]** Similar to `src/shared`, the `src/views` directory is another shared code utility folder. However this folder's contents are available only to your app's HTTP `GET` Functions.

This allows for more efficient front-end code sharing, preventing the unnecessary bloat of your front-end getting copied to your non-`GET` and/or non-HTTP functions.

Here's an example of how a file in `src/views` would be available to an HTTP `GET` Function after hydration:


```bash
.
└── src/
    ├── http/
    │   └── get-index/
    |       ├── node_modules/
    |       |   └── @architect/
    |       |       └── views/
    |       |           └── layout.js
    |       └── index.js
    └── views/
        └── layout.js
```

Here's what the `require` would look like for that file:

```js
// src/http/get-index/index.js
const Layout = require('@architect/views/layout')
exports.handler = async function http(request) {
  return {
    statusCode: 200,
    type: 'text/html; charset=utf8',
    body: Layout('Hello world!')
  }
}
```


## Static assets

### `public/`

**[Optional]** Contents of the `public` directory are deployed to a secure blob store (S3) for hosting and distribution to your CDN (URLs for both of which can be found in your app's `Settings` screen).

This is a great place to place images and build artifacts, or to aim your static site generator at. The folder name is also configurable from the `Static assets` screen, too.

[Learn more about working with `public/` and static assets](/en/getting-started/static-assets/).

> Note: assume the S3 bucket may fully sync with your `public/` (or configured folder name) in your source control; anything not found there may be deleted from the S3 bucket during subsequent deployments.


## Tests

### `tests/`

**[Optional]** Test root for your app's tests (run locally via `npm test`)

Most Begin apps come provisioned with some basic tests in this directory.

Head here to [learn more about writing tests in Begin](/en/getting-started/writing-tests).


## Considerations

- Function directories are generated by Begin; you can check in new Function dirs in `src`, but they will not provision new infrastructure. Learn more about [creating new Functions](/en/functions/creating-new-functions/).
- Similarly, while you are totally encouraged to add files, subfolders, modules, etc. to your Functions, **moving or renaming Function folders themselves will break your application**. So don't do that – instead, create new resources and `git mv` your files on over.
- Dependencies in your project's root `package.json` are not available to your Functions
  - To ensure a dependency is available to a given Function, `cd` into that Function's folder and install it there
- Directories not mentioned in this doc will otherwise be ignored by Begin
